---
layout: post
number: "-13"
custom-title-image: "./images/LA Logo.png"
title: "The Lost Archives #7: A New Leaf"
desc: "I am happy to announce I am ready to start working on the game again. Over the past few weeks my life has become an unorganised mess. Sleeping late, waking up late, getting no work done. A general lack of motivation. But as I reflected on everything, I realised I am only driving myself into a downward spiral. So as of last week, I have been trying to correct my schedule, with positive results, and now I have reached a point where I feel like I am in the right place to get this game done."
date: 2020-12-08 00:00:00 +0100
published: true
permalink: "la08"
---

I am happy to announce I am ready to start working on the game again. Over the past few weeks my life has become an unorganised mess. Sleeping late, waking up late, getting no work done. A general lack of motivation. But as I reflected on everything, I realised I am only driving myself into a downward spiral. So as of last week, I have been trying to correct my schedule, with positive results, and now I have reached a point where I feel like I am in the right place to get this game done.

Starting from next week, I am going to assign 1 feature for that week, and get it done in that week. If the feature presents a challenge, I'll permit myself an extra week to get it done. If it isn't done by then, I'll put it one rain check and move on to a new feature. We are trying to make a playable game after all, not a polished one quite yet. Most of the features we need to make the game playable are planned out already, so its just a matter of getting what needs to be done, done.

Developing games is not easy, takes a lot of drive to sit in front of your computer and code, especially when all you want to do is lie in bed. That's why motivation is needed, motivation to see the project to the end, and the satisfaction of finishing a project. Personally, I don't mind if the game doesn't do well, but we started this project and bloody founded a company for this project, so by god we are going to finish this project.

I guess that's all I really wanted to say, I have end of term exams in January, but that shouldn't hinder any progress. I'll likely do a 50 50 split, or 70 30 split with revision and work on this game. I think the discipline of actively working on the game will also help my study hopefully.

**Appreciation for anyone who gave the time to read this,**\
**The Team,**\
**Plasmarc Studios**