---
layout: post
number: "2"
title: "Forensic Friday 2: Multi-floor path-finding done amongst over Notable Additions"
desc: ""
date: 2021-05-29 00:00:00 +0100
published: true
permalink: "/ff2"
---
Again, it is clearly a Saturday, but I'm starting to get used to the idea of Forensic Fridays being delayed by a day. It's a bit funny to me. Anyhow over the past week I poured all my efforts into getting multi-floor path-finding done, and to my blissful surprise, I actually managed to get it done!🥳  Barring the Out of Memory PC crashing bug which remains currently unfixed, it works for the most part; at least it works when NPCs try to get to higher floors. It shouldn't be too much hassle to address the bugs however meaning I can move on to more things! It sometimes feels quite soulless working on backdoor stuff, so the change of scenery will be very welcome. I still need to get structural integrity done, but it's a lot less daunting than it sounds.

# Notable Additions
The only notable additions would be the revised health display and the ability to make NPCs enter a guard mode, wherein you can force them to move to certain places, and in the future, be able to make them carry out a task. These two features can be seen in the videos below:

<video width="320" height="240" controls>
<source src="./forensic-friday-media/ff02/1.mp4" type="video/mp4">
Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

<video width="320" height="240" controls>
<source src="./forensic-friday-media/ff02/2.mp4" type="video/mp4">
Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
*Note- colours correspond to severity of injury, this goes from trivial to fatal*

# Case Closed
This update has fallen rather short, mostly because there isn't a great deal of actual new content since we added doors and room designations; plus Dillan is still doing exams so I'm still left to pick up the leftover crumbs for now. Not sure if that metaphor works but I don't get paid enough, literally, I don't get paid at all. Anyhow, I think I will probably spend next week cleaning up the loose ends with all the multi-floor stuff, which should set us up nicely for moving onto other areas of the game. Some prospective tasks I will be tackling in the near future involve: Gas system + Ventilation, Refrigeration, New Power system. These main areas should be finished within 2 weeks or so from now, from then it would be more of a case of working on the many NPC classes the game offers. This is Dillan's specialisation, so more than likely, we would be working in parallel to get it done in a timely manner. It is very likely that I may finish all my queued up tasks before Dillan comes back to the project, which would be the best outcome.


**That's all we have! Until next week!**\
**The Team,**\
**Plasmarc Studios**