---
layout: post
number: "41"
title: "Forensic Friday 41: "
desc: ""
date: 2023-06-23 00:00:00 +0100
published: false 
permalink: "/ff41"
---

Welcome, all, to Forensic Friday 41! As usual, we'll go through everything we've been up to this week game development wise, along with a few additions such as the Anomaly of the Week poll winner, as well as progress on our new steam page! Let's get the anomaly of the week out of the way first...

# Anomaly of the Week

This week's *"Anomaly of the Week"*, winning by a narrow margin is...*drumroll*... 

 **S-0257 - "Deer in management"**

S-0257 is a humanoid individual with a defining characteristic of a deer's head instead of a normal head. Despite this, S-0257 acts normally and is able to produce human words and sounds. S-0257 refers to itself as Dr. Deers. S-0257 wears a uniform similar to corporation scientist uniforms except being a color level not part of the corporation. 
Credit: Dr. Kleine Evengald

Following on from our Mechnical Monday (MM) blog post about our new schedule for MMs, we'll spend the next week working on the Anomaly PDF document for S-0257, and will publish it in the next Mechnical Monday in just over a week (hopefully 03/06/23 if we are not slacking).

# Finally... a Steam Page

# Game Development Updates

Lastly, the actual meat-and-potatoes for this whole project - the actual game development.

## Prisoners Expanded Completed

This week brought to a close "Prisoners Expanded" on our roadmap, which has actually been going since February due to the quirks of having exams between then and now.

# Case Closed



**Case Closed.**\
**The Team**\
**Plasmarc Studios**